Added documentation about dynamic root for v13 (#5625)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 13/umbraco-cms/fundamentals/backoffice/property-editors/built-in-umbraco-property-editors/multinode-treepicker.md

### Node type
set the type of node, the root node of the tree, or query for the root node

For querying content you can specify a dynamic root
![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp_node_type.png)

When you specify the dynamic root, you have are able to navigate the tree relative to a node.
![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp_node_type_dynamic_root.png)

First you have to specify a origin, from where the query will start.
![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp_node_type_dynamic_root_origin.png)

You have the following options:
- Root
  - The root is the first level item of the current nodes subtree.
- Parent
  - The parent is the nearest ancestor of the current node.
- Current
    - The current node. Be aware a picker that uses the current node, cannot pick anything when the current node is created, because it do not have any children.
- Site
  - The nearest ancestor of the current node that has a domain assigned.
- Specific node
  - A specific node that you have to choose in the tree

> Often a origin is a good dynamic root, but you also have the option to execute multiple steps from the origin to navigate the tree to find another root.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Often an origin is a good dynamic root. It is also possible to execute multiple steps from the origin to navigate the tree to find another root.
```

![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp_node_type_dynamic_root_steps.png)

Yoy have the following options:
- Nearest Ancestor or Self
  -  Finds the nearest ancestor or the item itself, that fits with one of the configured document types.
- Furthest Ancestor or Self
  -  Finds the furthest ancestor or the item itself, that fits with one of the configured document types.
- Nearest Descendant or Self
  -  Finds the nearest descendant or the item itself, that fits with one of the configured document types.
- Furthest Descendant or Self
  -  Finds the furthest descendant or the item itself, that fits with one of the configured document types.
- Custom
  - Execute a custom query step by specifying the name. This requires custom code to add the new query step.

Each query step takes the output from the last step (or the origin) as input.

![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp_node_type_dynamic_root_overview.png)

#### Adding a custom query step

> Custom query steps can be used to solve some very specific use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom query steps can be used to solve some specific use cases.
```

Author: Personally I still think "very" is important here, but at least something like "quite"

Reviewer: @bergmania Fair, then lets just keep very.

One other thing, I think it would make sense to just shortly mention which specific use cases it is this custom query can solve :-)

Author: Only your imagination is the limitation ;) 

There is one example here https://github.com/umbraco/Umbraco-CMS/discussions/15097#discussioncomment-7520854

I think it is hard to write good examples in a short way or use example we would not recommend. But we know some people used xpath to query for content with property of a specific value.

Reviewer: To be fair, that does not seem very specific to me 🙈

Maybe we could say something like: "Custom query steps can be used to solve some specific use cases." A use case could be using xpath to query for content with property of a specific value."

Author: I would argue, you have done something wrong if this is required. I'm just afraid of giving people bad ideas.

I'll let it be up to you, if you think is better, then feel free to do it

To add a custom query step you need to append it to the existing query steps. This can be done from a composer:

```csharp
public class CustomQueryStepComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.DynamicRootSteps().Append<MyCustomDynamicRootQueryStep>();
    }
}
```

> The implementation of a query step takes in a collection of origins and information about the query step, from where the name specified in the UI can be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation of a query step takes in a collection of origins and information about the query step. The collection is taken from where the name specified in the UI can be found.
```

```csharp
public class CustomQueryStepComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.DynamicRootSteps().Append<MyCustomDynamicRootQueryStep>();
    }
}
```

The code required to create a custom query step is like in the below example.

You can inject dependencies into the constructor.
Some interesting dependencies could be custom repositories, or the `IVariationContextAccessor`, if you wanna use the current culture.

> The `ExecuteAsync` method gets a collection of content keys from the last executed query step (or the origin) and has to return a new collection of content keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ExecuteAsync` method gets a collection of content keys from the last executed query step or the origin. It has to return a new collection of content keys.
```

    {
        _myCustomRepository = myCustomRepository;
    }

    public async Task<Attempt<ICollection<Guid>>> ExecuteAsync(ICollection<Guid> origins, DynamicRootQueryStep filter)
    {
        if (filter.Alias != "MyCustom") // This is the string you will have to write in the UI
        {
            return Attempt<ICollection<Guid>>.Fail();
        }

        if (origins.Any() is false)
        {
            return Attempt<ICollection<Guid>>.Succeed(Array.Empty<Guid>());
        }

        // TODO replace with your own logic
        var result = await _myCustomRepository.GetWhateverIWantAsync(origins);

        return Attempt<ICollection<Guid>>.Succeed(result);
    }
}
```

### Filter out items with type
Allow or disallow tree nodes with a certain content type alias.

Enter `typeAlias,altTypeAlias` to only allow selecting nodes with those alias'. Enter `!typeAlias,altTypeAlias` to only allow selecting nodes **not** with those alias'.

### Minimum/maximum number of items
Set a limit on the number of items allowed to be selected.

## Data Type Definition Example

![Multinode Treepicker Data Type Definition](../../images/mntp.png)
## Content Example

> Consider the following tree structure where document type alias is presented in square brackets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following tree structure where Document Type alias is presented in square brackets.
```

- Codegarden
    - 2023 \[_year_\]
        - Talks \[_talks_\]
            - ...
            - Umbraco anno MMXXIII \[_talk_\]
        - Stages \[_stages_\]
            - Social Space \[_stage_\]
            - No 10 \[_stage_\]
            - No 16 \[_stage_\]
            - The Theatre \[_stage_\]
    - 2022 \[_year_\]
        - Talks \[_talks_\]
            - ...
        - Stages  \[_stages_\]
            - Main Stage \[_stage_\]
            - The Barn \[_stage_\]
            - The Theatre \[_stage_\]

> Consider configuring a picker on the _talk_ document type to chose a stage of the talk. Here you only want to present the stages for the actual year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider configuring a picker on the _talk_ Document Type to choose a stage of the talk. Here you only want to present the stages for the actual year.
```
